(happy music)
- Hi there! Today I have a holiday classic
to share with you: green bean casserole,
but in this recipe we've
slashed fat and calories
so you can enjoy this dish year round
and not just during the holidays.
To start, I've preheated
the oven to 350 degrees.
Here I have my 8x8 casserole
dish, and first I'm
adding in one pound of frozen, French cut,
green beans that I've thawed previously.
If you're making this when
green beans are in season,
you can certainly use fresh green beans.
Just wash them thoroughly
and snap off the ends
before adding them to the dish.
Okay, next I have a 10
ounce can of reduced fat,
low-sodium cream of mushroom soup.
Always make a point of buying
low-sodium soups, broths, or
stocks as you can really
slash a lot of salt that way.
So, let me add this.
So next I'll add a 1/2
cup of low fat sour cream,
and a 1/2 teaspoon of black pepper.
Now I'm going to stir this, and make sure
everything is mixed well together
and the green beans are well coated.
So in to the oven this goes, and I'll let
that bake for about 20 minutes.
So now, while my casserole's baking away,
I'm gonna show you how to make
lightly fried onion sticks.
As you probably know,
traditional green bean casserole
is topped with French fried onions,
which aren't the healthiest
things in the world.
Our version will have less
saturated fat and calories,
but will still get the job done
when it comes to making that
oniony, crunchy, yummy topping.
So, on this tray here,
I will spread out my onions.
This is one small white onion that
I've cut in to thin sticks.
First I'll coat them
with some cooking spray.
And now I'll sprinkle them with
1/4 cup of whole wheat flour.
And now, time to cook!
I'll spray my large skillet
here with cooking spray,
and put this on a medium-high heat.
Now that it's hot, I'll add my onions,
and I'll just cook these
until they're crispy.
This will take about five minutes or so.
I'll stir frequently so that
they cook and they don't burn.
Now twenty minutes are up,
so out comes my casserole.
This is looking good.
So I'm just gonna add half of my onions,
like so,
and I'll just stir this into my casserole.
And now, I'll just top the casserole
with the rest of my onions.
And voila, back in to the oven it
goes for about five more minutes.
And here's our finished
green bean casserole!
Looking very much like
the traditional dish,
but in ours it's a heart-healthy version.
In fact, you can now enjoy this any season
your family's in a holiday mood.
Bye.
(happy music)